"We do not see things as they are, we see them as we are." - The Talmud

As I walked the broken streets, the grey sky hung low overhead. Unfamiliar, worn-down faces passed me as I breathed in the cigarette and diesel-polluted air of the decaying city. I found a green park to sit for a while, but the peace and quiet was drowned out by yapping dogs and kids screaming. I gave up on the attempted respite and sought solace in the mundane ritual of a haircut, long delayed. As the woman cut my hair, she complained about the foreigners moving in and driving up prices for everyone. It seems interesting, I thought to myself, that the Portuguese, once proud of their global conquests, were now concerned about modern-day explorers encroaching on their turf.

Nothing seemed to work well in Lisbon. I plugged in my electric kettle, only to have it explode like a pressure cooker, leaving me both burnt and under-caffeinated. My packages failed to be delivered time and time again. And I was woken up at all hours of the night from the incessant buzzing of the front door. Needless to say, I was in a sour mood.

In less than a month, I had gone from Tokyo to LA to New York to Lisbon, perpetually in a state of jet lag. When I arrived, I got hit like a punch to the gut with food poisoning and fever. I was exhausted to the core. Through this exhaustion I saw the worst in everything and everyone. Challenges on the new job seemed insurmountable and I found my anxiety levels bubbling up uncontrollably at times. My mind fell into the ruts of insecurity, doubt, and distrust. I could see all this happening and even knew the reason why, but I couldn’t change my disposition. For a week I prioritized only the basics: deep rest, exercise and simple home-cooked meals. Little by little my sleep got better. After having three straight nights of solid sleep, I woke up feeling like a new person. Life became interesting and exciting again. I looked forward to solving problems at work and I felt a deeper connection with my teammates. The city around me seemed to transform too.

As I walked the charming cobblestone streets, the silver sky glimmered overhead. Friendly faces passed by, occasionally making eye contact and greeting me with a “bom dia”. The smell of mulled wine hung thick in the air as I passed by a farmer’s market. I sat down at the neighborhood park where dogs and children played and birds sang their songs loudly in the green trees. On the way home, I stopped by the local butcher to pick up something for dinner and was greeted by a squat, old man who looked like he was pulled straight out of a Tolkien novel. I exchanged my coins for a large, thin steak and a rack of ribs. After dinner I cracked open a new book as the blue and pink sunset lit up my windows. The world seemed expansive and welcoming.