Cities are an incredible testament to human achievement. We’ve tamed the wild earth, coerced metal from stone and carved out environments purpose-built for humans. Buildings stand like obelisks, towering over sidewalks and narrow parks. Steel trains screech through the arteries of the city, carrying commuters to and from work. Organized, convenient, efficient.

Our bodies remain trapped in an inconvenient era. 300 thousand years as hunter-gatherers have created vestigial needs that are nearly invisible but difficult to shake. Not adapted to this perfect environment, our bodies make us sick, anxious and tired. We placate these primitive bodies with treadmills, ergonomic chairs and supplements. It doesn’t perfectly satisfy them but it’s good enough while we focus on what really matters.

New feats of engineering allow us to pack more and more humans as close as possible to the economic spigot. As the number in our bank account rises, we leverage it to get even closer to the spigot. Location, status, network: these recursive goals are the nuclear reactor of cities. Cheap capital allows humans to lock into a lifestyle above their means. The honking horns and the hurried footsteps are just the heartbeats of a healthy reactor hard at work.

When scarcity is scarce, humans invent new ways to create status, lining up around city blocks for the latest trendy restaurant or clothing store. It doesn’t just stop at luxuries. A view of nature, a safe walk to school, a quiet workplace. The city performs a kind of alchemy, taking what would be commodities elsewhere and transforming them into exclusive symbols for the elite. It finds new ways to feed a hunger to feel unique when living with so many other people.

As I step into the street, a sour cocktail of weed, trash and urine hits my nose. A man huddled in his makeshift sleeping bag alternates between his Big Gulp and vape pen. The skyline looms overhead like jagged teeth of a giant creature, slowly consuming its 20 million inhabitants.